if you've traveled around China almost
any part of China but especially Taiwan
you will have seen a lot of things named
data you will see in road signs you will
see universities name that song you will
have seen monuments with data and things
like it written on them what's the big
idea
well the dad's home shoe is one of the
most influential books in the history of
modern China and the idea of dads home
does go back to Confucius pretty much
all sources will agree that Kang Yu Wei
is famous and is important for history
but though this degree as to why he's
famous or what he's famous for in an
earlier period of his life what really
brought him to national and
international acclaim was a period in
Chinese history called the 100 days of
reform during these 100 days he was at
the pinnacle of international influence
Fame and frankly notoriety the hundred
days of reform ended in failure which
means that the social reforms he was
proposing at the time never had a chance
to play out for better or for worse so
in some ways as he entered into a long
period of Exile he was a symbol for the
promise that China could have had would
have had or should have had if only
things hadn't fallen apart quite so
disastrously at the end of the Imperial
period in terms of what Kenya Way
actually proposed the Chinese government
should do you adapt to the modern world
during this earlier time 1898 many
people remember him either as a sort of
moderate reformer as some kind of
Confucian conservative which is
misleading as we'll get into or at least
associated with the kind of pragmatic
westernizing tendency in China at the
time you could say that he was trying to
preserve the monarchy in China but to
move towards something that much more
resembled modern England a
constitutional monarchy with some small
rule for the Emperor
but elected officials end all the
advantages of
Western technology is democratized
society as you can imagine given the
extreme violence of what happened both
earlier and later in China's political
history this generally means the county
way is remembered as one of the good
guys
however his own philosophy is much more
radical much more subversive than people
tend to want to admit in retrospect
that's why it's a bit strange that still
today some sources report that he was a
conservative Confucian when his own
ideas included the total abolition of
the family the abolition even of family
names and of basically everyone being
reduced to being an orphan raised in
government orphanages from birth
never knowing or meeting their parents
if you know even a little bit about
Confucianism you'll realize that that's
radically anti confusion and well it's
impossible to associate him with either
conservative confusion as a more
conservative Buddhism at the time his
most influential work which is why there
are so many street signs called that
home was called the da Tong shoe I guess
you could translate that as the book of
the great unity some others call it the
book of the great harmony something like
that
the idea of dat home does appear in
Confucius however it's just a vaguely
alluded to future utopia of some kind
it isn't really an idea or philosophy
that's worked out of detail in Confucius
although the phrase itself does go back
to that period of earlier antiquity one
of the main reasons why the study of
Kanye's intellectual legacy is so
important today was that he directly and
deeply influenced Mao Zedong that's
despite the fact that as I've already
mentioned he wasn't a communist he
actually openly rejected communism his
own writing and as I've described he was
mostly remembered for very moderate
pro-democratic reforms however there's a
big gap between that period of early
fame and when his actual utopian vision
of the future
the Dada Hong Xiu was finally published
in 1935 actually years after the
author's own death you'll find a lot of
misleading information about this
because I guess you could say the
prologue to the book just the first two
chapters
was published in a much earlier date
whoever those first two chapters are a
kind of pseudo Buddhist set of
reflections on the suffering and
corruption and evil of the world setting
up the case as to why a future utopia is
necessary or how Chinese society can
should be better you don't really get a
hint as to how radical can you A's ideas
really work or how far is going to take
it what were the ideas that Kenya Wei
wrote about that so appealed to Mao
Zedong or so strongly influenced them
well you have to remember communism was
originally a European philosophy and
even though many intellectuals including
Mao himself tried to adapt communism to
be more appealing to and more relevant
to an Asian reading audience works like
congee ways that song had the advantages
of really being written in an idiom that
would appeal to a Chinese intellectual
of course that includes the Selective
use he made of Confucian and Buddhist
sources everything about his verbiage
but also his interpretation of
reinterpretation of what was then going
on in Western science he has a lot to
say about Darwin and social Darwinism
for example however to be more specific
and concrete I could say that you really
see in Kenya way very particular ideas
about how social change is going to be
brought about about how for instance
villages would be reorganized into
communes how agriculture would be
transformed in rural China and most
directly how industry and the
distribution of goods would change when
the private sector was destroyed and
replaced with an expanded public sector
in reading those parts of the text we
see now the very clear outlines of what
Mao Zedong attempted to do especially
during the Great Leap Forward period of
China's history I'll provide a link in
the description to this video so that
you can read my relatively long and
boring essay that fills in a lot of the
details on this but very briefly I
should also mention how can you as
philosophy is very different from that
of Mao Zedong well there are several
aspects of his thought that were
obviously either appealing to Mao taught
him ideas that
hijole or confirmed ideas that now
already had we can also see that Mao
chose to ignore a large part of what
Kenny weighs philosophy was all about
among other things kang youwei
completely assumed that the future for
china would start with emulating Western
democracy involving elections
Parliament's ballot boxes voting to
decide almost every major issue in
society including the prices of goods
educational reforms things like that
obviously China would be a very
different place today if now that
respond to that aspect of what Kenya's
philosophy had to offer
although it would be misleading to
describe him as either a Buddhist or
Confucian it's true that his future
utopia does include both of these
religions in some capacity and that for
example he takes a lot of interest in
the suffering of animals and promotes
veganism saying that in the future human
beings simply will not eat meat at all
and that all exploitation of animals
will be discarded as a thing of the past
now you have to consider Mao had many
possible sources of influence to choose
from however the type of grandiose
verbiage that Kanye offered to mal were
to any Chinese reader at the time it was
probably a lot more inspiring than
detailed boring reports from the USSR
about Soviet attempts to bring about
collectivization and economic change
whether at the village level of
factories or otherwise remember by 1949
the Soviet Union already had decades of
experience with well failed experiments
and social change that China could have
learned from but that stuff to be pretty
very to go through and by the 1960s and
1970s it's pretty clear that China
wanted a refreshing break from their own
past including their very recent
communist past and that's when they took
on the much more radical and frankly
disastrous movements of the Great Leap
Forward and the Cultural Revolution you
can watch some of my earlier videos by
the way discussing what happened
how many people died and the new English
language literature talking about it in
short it's a shame that so little is
written about kang youwei and so little
is understood in english he really was
one of the most influential Chinese
authors of the 20th century both in
terms of the influence he had on
hardcore communists and paradoxically
because the directives ones he had on
anti-communists not least of all in
Taiwan